Israeli forces have stepped up strikes
in southern Gaza overnight a day after
announcing plans to pull back some
troops the center of the strip is a
battlefield there's fighting around
three refugee camps between Israeli
forces and the armed wing of Hamas the
number of Palestinians killed in the
military offensive since October the 7th
is approaching
22,000 the humanitarian crisis is
getting worse Aid agencies say
Relentless Israeli bombardments are
preventing badly needed supplies from
getting in this say even more is needed
hany Mahmud joining us live from Rafa in
southern Gaza hany first of all tell us
what's been happening with these Israeli
strikes yes well despite the uh the
reports about Israeli military pulling
out of some parts of the Gaz the
northern part and Gaza City from major
areas that uh earlier uh the this week
declaring uh it's full control over
these territories but now we're seeing
these reports of them withdrawing uh
from these areas with no further
explanation about what were the motives
for this withdraw uh we're seeing more
intense bombardment in the central uh
area and on Khan Unis particularly all
of all of last night uh uh and the early
hours of this morning uh these two areas
came under heavy bombardment and
artillery Shillings and reports about a
massive explosions taking place at the
entire city of kanun as well as all the
refugee camps in the central part now
the intensity and the scale of the of
the bombings that prevented paramedics
and ambulance to uh to go to the
targeted sites and tried to uh uh take
people back to the hospitals or save
them just uh could not move and given
the fact that the vast majority of the
roads and infrastructure are destroyed
and what we heard just within the past
hour of the in in Khan un from Naser
Hospital paramedics and ambulance are
able now to get to these targeted sites
the residential homes that were targeted
and the evacuation centers within their
vicinity where much of the bombings
going on similar thing in the central
part so we're expecting uh to uh to
get exact numbers of of the casualties
of overnight and and early hours of this
morning now the fear is those who were
not being able to be saved overnight
given the intensity of the bombings are
are
are possibly lost their life as they
were left bleeding on this on these
targeted uh sites and hany not only do
people have to deal with the Israeli air
strikes and the damage to the
infrastructure of course there's a lack
of supplies as well on top of that the
weather is causing problems
too yes indeed and and for the the
thousand of of Palestinians forcibly
displaced here in in in in the southern
part of the gas are forced to live in in
in unsuitable living conditions inside
these plastic and Nyland tents here uh
appli towait uh uh them given that the
weather is getting colder and with the
possible heavy rainfall as what happened
overnight we get reports about the area
where the AL
maasi evacuation Zone was set up it's
flooded and a lot of people had water
inside their their tents but for this
large number of people on a prepared uh
for the cold weather no Heating and no
suitable closing no blankets to keep the
warm the uh the the the the the concern
about survival uh uh are are very very
high and there is another place not only
it's getting cold and and then there is
no proper heating or clothing for these
people but the the spread of waterborne
disease as well infectious disease that
among the most vulnerable group here
we're talking about a children there's
also another problem that most of the
water available here in the southern
part is U generated by the desalination
stations that are operated by a solar
panel and in winter time a solar panel
needs a Solid 5 hours of sunlight to to
charge so the the the stations can
operate well and get water with with
wind and and the the sun is is not out
for uh for long hours there is a a
difficulty of the for these uh uh
desalination stations to to operate and
to to generate a drinking uh water for
people so we're looking at ahead of
further complications as the weather
getting colder and uh more rain is is
expected to to come down hany Mahmud in
Rafa in southern Gaza Hy thank you very
much indeed